>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
I wanna talk about middleware and
filters as they relate to controllers.
So I wanna give a brief
review on middleware.
This image is from the ASP.NET Core docs,
and pretty well describes what I said
earlier, which is that middleware
kinda flows like a pipeline, and
middleware is simply different
sections of that pipeline.
And as water, or in this case,
our request flows through that pipe,
our middleware is able to do things to it.
It can actually change the nature of
the request, but it can also just decide
whether or not it can handle it, or move
it on to the next piece of middleware.
That's what this illustrates, right?
We have our piece of middleware,
it has some logic, and
it's gonna call the next piece
of middleware if it realizes or
if it figures out that it can't
itself handle the request.
Or it's going to modify parts of
that request to add things to it for
other middleware in the pipe.
And then you'll remember that during
the intro to this, as we were talking
about middleware inside of ASP.NET Core,
we were talking about how we could
block pretty much all requests for
being handled by simply adding this "Use".
Which is just a way of saying,
add this middleware that's executed
from this delegate or function.
We can use app.Use, and
as long as we don't call the next piece of
middleware in the pipeline,
we're gonna go ahead and stop processing.
So one of the things that you
can do as an experiment just for
fun is open this solution up and
try copying and pasting this around and
see how it modifies or
changes different aspects of your program.
Middleware order is extremely important,
and especially when
we're talking about authorization and
things of that nature.
The order of middleware
becomes supremely important,
especially as your application
grows in complexity.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So this is the
typical middleware used in ASP.NET Core
web app that might serve more than just
an API, it might serve static files.
It actually would serve static files,
because it would serve your JavaScript and
your CSS.
So it has a middleware for that to say,
if there's a static file that exists
at that path, then return that.
Otherwise, move down to use routing,
which is a way of establishing
routing rules inside of ASP.NET Core.
Then, of course, use authentication and
then authorization.
One must come before the other.
You've got to authenticate.
We have to know who you are before we can
determine that you can do the thing that
you're asking to do.
And then MapRazorPages,
which is just a flavor of web
framework that ASP.NET Core provides,
and then go down to controllers
if we can't go to a razor page.
I wanna touch on, do I actually
ever write my own middleware?
And the answer is that I do.
It's not super often, because at
that point, I'm pretty well aware.
It's not like I'm writing
middleware every week.
It's like, I gotta handle this
different kind of request.
Most of the time, if I'm adding endpoints,
I'm adding them to controllers or
something along those lines.
I'm adding them to controllers,
because ASP.NET Core already
knows how to handle those things.
But I have done it and
here's a really brief example
of when I might have to do it.
For example,
if I have a multi-tenant SaaS app and
I need to establish what
tenant that we are working on,
then I might read, if we say,
type in, if our application
was something like the Microsoft
example of Contoso.
And we decided that we would
discriminate on whether or
not this was, say,
the subdomain of Frontend Masters.
That that was the tenant that
frontendmasters.contoso.com was
a specific tenant and pointed to
a specific piece of our software.
So that way, we contained all
their data to that one place.
We might read that Frontend Masters and
then look up that tenants ID based
on the value of that subdomain.
So stuff like this where
you're kind of building in or
enhancing your application and adding in
specific behaviors that are custom to you.
How do I identify this tenant so
that downstream other middleware
can use that tenant ID?
This is where you might do that.
The purposes of this course, and for
the purposes of this discussion,
it's important to know what
middleware is and what it's used for.
But day-to-day, you don't really
have to think about it that much,
because most of the time
you're setting it up.
Once you're modifying it so often as
your business requirements change, and
then you're just letting
ASP.NET Core do its thing.
But I do want to talk about filters.
And filters are a way to modify behavior
requests, but only after the request
has actually been routed to something
that ASP.NET Core MVC does.
So, for example, a controller method.
At the point that it's actually going
through and executing that controller
method, it's actually already done
a bunch of stuff under the hood.
It's done some model binding, so it knows
that the body of the request goes into
this particular object
that we've specified.
So at that point, we can use filters
to even change that behavior further.
You can think of them as micro middleware,
but
they're very specialized to just
handle functions within ASP.NET Core.
And there's a bunch of different
built-in types of middleware,
there's authorization filters,
for example, to say that,
are you authorized to use
this particular resource?
Is this user have this permission,
or is this user part of this role?
You could enable CORS (Cross-origin resource sharing)
for a specific action or controller.
And that is to determine whether or not to
establish cross-domain boundary rules so
that a browser can figure out,
can I actually access this resource,
cuz it's outside of the webpage
that we're executing in?
Should we cache this response?
And for how long should we require HTTPS?
Or maybe we have an AntiForgeryToken,
because we wanna prevent
some kind of attack.
So do we wanna validate
our ForgeryToken before we
get to actually executing this method?
So there's several different kinds.
The one that we will touch on is the
authorize filter, which is very important.